Ken Haney
Philip Hahs
CS489 Game Project
Banana Cannon Commando

Introduction:
Banana Cannon Commando is a 3D action adventure 3rd person shooter where the player fights off zombie fruit through 
multiple dungeons to find 3 keys to unlock the final boss dungeon and save fruitopia from the evil Dr. Rotten. The 
game will play on the pc only. The game world will contain a main hub world with 3 mini dungeons and a main boss 
dungeon. The player will obtain a new weapon at the end of each dungeon that can be used to unlock the barriers on 
the final door. The first level will consist of a maze like orchard full of frombie creatures that used to be oranges 
and apples. The second level will involve the town’s supermarket that will introduce tomato frombies. The third level 
will be a vegetable garden where enemies spawn and attack the player until they and the final boss are dead. The final 
dungeon is a fruit cake castle that will test the player’s skill with all the weapons he has acquired to defeat the evil 
Dr. Rotten in the final boss room. 

Background:
The game Banana Cannon Commando will be built on the Unity Engine with 3D visuals in C# and Java Script code. The concept 
art for the main protagonist, enemies, bosses, and non-playable characters will be drawn by Philip Hahs using Inkscape 
version 0.91. The map level design will be developed by Ken Haney, which will include the background objects and scenery. 
All animations will be crafted by Philip Hahs and Ken Haney. The music background for each level will be either from 
non-royalty music by various artists or Philip Hahs. The music will be light hearted and set the atmosphere for each level. 

Description:
As the main protagonist, you will play as a banana commando wielding a herbicide cannon to shoot and fight off infected fruit 
zombies called frombies. Your peaceful village Fruitopia is under attack by Dr. Rotten who has experimented on the Fruitopian 
villagers turning them into frombies. He has also developed a serum that has turned some of the frombies into froids, which are 
frombies on steroids. Dr. Rotten has locked himself in his giant fruit cake castle, and the only way to get to him is to venture 
through multiple levels and defeat his evil boss minions and acquire their gun mods. These gun mods can be used as keys to unlock 
the next level area as well as the castle gate that requires all 4 gun mod keys to open. 

In the first level called The Orchard, you will be holding your main weapon the herbi-cannon. This cannon will shoot your basic three
burst rounds at enemies. The main enemies in this level will be apple and orange frombies with 1-2 froids and a super froid boss at 
the end. The froid boss will be a mutated half orange half apple. You will have to clear out the main zones of any and all enemies 
that you see to obtain lives and ammo. The main boss will be waiting in the last area waiting to smash you with his fists of thunder. 
Defeating the boss will give you a shotgun weapon that will unlock the chain that locks the next level. 

In the second level named The Supermarket, you will explore the torn down supermarket where frombies are wreaking havoc on innocent 
Fruitopians. You will need to kill all the enemy frombies that now include tomato frombies before going to the second floor. More 
frombies are tearing up the supermarket including the suicide grape frombies that will charge at you and explode. You will have to 
defeat them all before heading the third floor boss area where u will face a super froid boss tomato that will spray tomato acid on 
the ground for you to avoid. Defeating the Macho-mato will unlock a new weapon mod, the Egg-splode mode, to unlock the next area. 
This weapon will fire rotten eggs that will unleash a gas odor destroying the barrier to the next level. 

In the third level titled The Vegetable Garden, you will be pitted against oncoming enemies coming off screen and be prompted when 
you can proceed to the next area. You can destroy some of the environment with the egg-splode mod to navigate around the map more 
easily. This new zone will introduce the rolling watermelon frombies. They will roll at you from off screen until you shoot them down. 
The final super froid boss will be a giant watermelon that rolls across the screen while you dodge and shoot suicide grapes. Once you 
have defeated the boss you will receive the final weapon the pellet nozzle that fires small pellets at the enemies. 

In the final level known as The Giant Fruit Cake Castle, you will have to navigate through three floors of fruit cake covered walls to 
reach Dr. Rotten’s lab. The first floor will have various switches to open doors that will lead to the next level. Here you will have 
to face off against all basic enemy frombies as well as mini froid bosses. The second level will repeat the first level in objectives, 
but will be redesigned accordingly. In the main boss room you will finally meet Dr. Evil, who is a giant worm that hides inside frombies 
moving them around like puppets. You will have to dodge his tail whip attack where he may fling a suicide grape your way. After defeating 
Dr. Rotten, the village of Fruitopia will be safe to rebuild all the damage that has been done as the banana commando enjoys a nice well 
deserved break lying on a beach chair under an umbrella in the sun sipping on carrot juice. 

Key Features:
-Single Player Campaign
-Multiple Levels: Fruitopia Village, The Orchard, The Supermarket, The Vegetable Garden, The Giant Fruit Cake Castle
-Multiple Enemies and Bosses: Frombies, Froids, Super Froid Bosses, and Dr. Rotten
-Weapon Modes: Herbi-Cannon, Shotgun Rain, Egg-Splode mod, Pellet Nozzle

Genre:
Third person action adventure game

Platform:
Windows, Mac, Linux

Concept Art:
Under Construction
